README.md, before:

# openai-slack-bot

![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jack482653/openai-slack-bot/workflow.yml?label=Test%20%26%20Build&style=for-the-badge)
![GitHub tag (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/jack482653/openai-slack-bot?label=Version&style=for-the-badge)

A Slack bot that uses the OpenAI API to generate responses and images based on user prompts.

Inspired by [@kvzhuang](https://gist.github.com/kvzhuang). Original source code can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/kvzhuang/357b83499d3edcc099512d47a4a1b646).

This document is polished by ChatGPT :P .

# Functions

- Mention bot and ask the bot a question at channel. Tt will generate a response:

<img width="693" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/209771710-0943aba3-2c56-4f5c-92d5-c60f8ac67ec7.png">

- Directly have a converstion with the bot:

<img width="372" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/223357511-91ceb512-8773-4fbd-879f-dce599cf9dd2.png">

- Generate an image based on a prompt:
```
/gen_image [prompt]
```
<img width="693" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/209779765-bd0892e9-fded-4a80-9d7c-4c0b3933accb.png">

- Summary the thread:

<img width="693" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/226178335-291dce6b-6d5e-4cb2-bcc4-832711b764ae.gif">

- Ask the question based on the conversations in the thread:

<img width="693" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/226178649-cd30db19-86e1-4bb1-a836-ec54a93896a7.gif">

# Prerequisites

## OpenAI

- Obtain an OpenAI API key.

## Slack

### Use App Manifest

You can easily create a pre-configured Slack app by [click this link](https://api.slack.com/apps?new_app=1&manifest_yaml=display_information%3A%0A%20%20name%3A%20OpenAI%20Chat%0A%20%20description%3A%20An%20OpenAI%20Slack%20bot%0Afeatures%3A%0A%20%20app_home%3A%0A%20%20%20%20home_tab_enabled%3A%20false%0A%20%20%20%20messages_tab_enabled%3A%20true%0A%20%20%20%20messages_tab_read_only_enabled%3A%20false%0A%20%20bot_user%3A%0A%20%20%20%20display_name%3A%20OpenAI%20Chat%0A%20%20%20%20always_online%3A%20true%0A%20%20shortcuts%3A%0A%20%20%20%20-%20name%3A%20Summarize...%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20type%3A%20message%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20callback_id%3A%20summarize%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20description%3A%20Summarize%20this%20thread...%0A%20%20%20%20-%20name%3A%20Ask%20something...%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20type%3A%20message%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20callback_id%3A%20ask%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20description%3A%20Ask%20the%20question%20in%20the%20thread%0A%20%20slash_commands%3A%0A%20%20%20%20-%20command%3A%20%2Fgen_image%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20description%3A%20Generate%20image%20from%20OpenAI%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20usage_hint%3A%20%22%5Ba%20white%20siamese%20cat%5D%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20should_escape%3A%20false%0Aoauth_config%3A%0A%20%20scopes%3A%0A%20%20%20%20bot%3A%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20app_mentions%3Aread%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20channels%3Ahistory%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20chat%3Awrite%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20chat%3Awrite.customize%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20chat%3Awrite.public%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20commands%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20files%3Awrite%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20groups%3Ahistory%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20im%3Ahistory%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20users%3Aread%0Asettings%3A%0A%20%20event_subscriptions%3A%0A%20%20%20%20bot_events%3A%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20app_mention%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20message.im%0A%20%20interactivity%3A%0A%20%20%20%20is_enabled%3A%20true%0A%20%20org_deploy_enabled%3A%20false%0A%20%20socket_mode_enabled%3A%20true%0A%20%20token_rotation_enabled%3A%20false).

This is done by Slack App Manifest. You can also manually copy the manifest below, and paste while creating Slack app.

```yaml
display_information:
  name: Azure OpenAI Bot
  description: An Azure OpenAI Slack bot
features:
  app_home:
    home_tab_enabled: false
    messages_tab_enabled: true
    messages_tab_read_only_enabled: false
  bot_user:
    display_name: AOAI Bot
    always_online: true
  shortcuts:
    - name: Summarize...
      type: message
      callback_id: summarize
      description: Summarize this thread...
    - name: Ask something...
      type: message
      callback_id: ask
      description: Ask the question in the thread
  slash_commands:
    - command: /gen_image
      description: Generate image from OpenAI
      usage_hint: "[a white siamese cat]"
      should_escape: false
    - command: /reset
      description: Fotget the current DM conversation
      should_escape: false
oauth_config:
  scopes:
    bot:
      - app_mentions:read
      - channels:history
      - chat:write
      - chat:write.customize
      - chat:write.public
      - commands
      - files:write
      - groups:history
      - im:history
      - users:read
settings:
  event_subscriptions:
    bot_events:
      - app_mention
      - message.im
  interactivity:
    is_enabled: true
  org_deploy_enabled: false
  socket_mode_enabled: true
  token_rotation_enabled: false
```

### Manual

1. Create a new app and install it to your workspace through the [Slack API](https://api.slack.com/apps).
2. Enable Socket Mode on the `Socket Mode` page.
3. On the `OAuth & Permissions` page, add the following scopes to `Scopes > Bot Token Scopes`:

<img width="660" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/226178765-6d325f69-3a6b-4183-aa92-58a2082eb6d8.png">

4. Enable Events and subscribe to the `app_mention` and `message.im` bot events on the `Event Subscriptions` page:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/223334464-8b85ae11-2921-4b18-a6a2-02a4598f9121.png)

5. Add the `/gen_image` command on the `Slash Commands` page:

<img width="652" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/209769980-5a618c3f-8c07-4023-b036-ad026f792329.png">

6. Add `summarize` and `ask` shortcuts on the `Interactivity & Shortcuts` page:

<img width="652" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/226179176-9966de71-e3dd-4d5c-b1de-7f1135287809.png">

7. Obtain the following keys and add them to a `.env` file at the root of the project directory:
    1. Slack
        - `SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET`: found under `Basic Information > App Credentials > Signing Secret`
        - `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN`: found under `OAuth & Permissions > Bot User OAuth Token`
        - `SLACK_APP_TOKEN`: found under `Basic Information > App-Level Tokens`, click on the token name to obtain it
        - `SLACK_APP_MENTION_QUOTE_USER_MESSAGE`: If enabled, user's message will be added as quote before response message when you mention bot. Default value: false.
    2. OpenAI auth
      You can use different OpenAI providers by setting `OPENAI_PROVIDER` to `openai` or `azure`. Each provider has different environment variables.
        1. OpenAI
            - `OPENAI_PROVIDER=openai`
            - `OPENAI_OPENAI_AUTH_API_KEY`: OpenAI API key
            - `OPENAI_OPENAI_AUTH_BASE_PATH`: OpenAI API base path.
        2. Azure
            - `OPENAI_PROVIDER=azure`
            - `OPENAI_AZURE_AUTH_API_BASE`: Azure API base path
            - `OPENAI_AZURE_AUTH_DEPLOYMENT_NAME`: Azure API deployment name
            - `OPENAI_AZURE_AUTH_API_VERSION`: Azure API version
            - `OPENAI_AZURE_AUTH_API_KEY`: Azure API key
    3. Common OpenAI settings
        - `OPENAI_CHAT_MODEL`: Which chat model you want to use. Be careful your money when you use gpt-4 :P. See [available models](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/overview). Default value: gpt-3.5-turbo.
        - `OPENAI_CHAT_ENABLE_SUMMARIZE`: If enabled, it will call OpenAPI chat completion to summarize previous conversioations when number of messages cached >= `OPENAI_CHAT_NUM_OF_MESSAGES`. Default value: false.
        - `OPENAI_CHAT_NUM_OF_MESSAGES`: Number of messages bot will cache. It's used for appending previous conversioations when calling chat completions API. MUST BE EVEN. Default value: 2.
        - `OPENAI_CHAT_TTL`: The duration of time (second) that messages will be kept. Default value: null (keep forever).
        - `OPENAI_CHAT_SYSTEM_MESSAGE`: First messsage to help set the behavior of the assistant. Default value: null.

IMPORTANT: If you are using Azure as OpenAI provider, you cannot use `/gen_image` command.

Your `.env` file should look like this:

```
OPENAI_PROVIDER=openai
OPENAI_OPENAI_AUTH_API_KEY=xxxxxxx
SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=xoxb-xxxxxxx
SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET=xxxxxx
SLACK_APP_TOKEN=xapp-xxxxxx
OPENAI_CHAT_MODEL=gpt-3.5-turbo
OPENAI_CHAT_ENABLE_SUMMARIZE=false
OPENAI_CHAT_NUM_OF_MESSAGES=4
OPENAI_CHAT_TTL=1200
OPENAI_CHAT_SYSTEM_MESSAGE="You are a helpful assistant."
```

# Getting Started

To get started with the bot, follow these steps:

1. Install the necessary dependencies by running `yarn install`

2. Start the bot by running `yarn start`

Alternatively, you can use docker by running `docker-compose up`.

<!-- # Insight

openai-slack-bot integrates Helicone to monitor their usage, latency, and costs of OpenAI:

<img width="652" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/227770247-4de265fa-ee1b-4630-bb17-7ad67818d75b.png">

<img width="800" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/227770354-9d23a3a4-bcb7-48b3-8eef-45ee8e94f243.png">


## Step
1. Go to [Helicone.ai](https://www.helicone.ai/) and register an account if you don't have one.
2. On step 2, add the OpenAI key you used in the bot:
<img width="652" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/227769528-786b9333-c72e-4479-9ce0-f5ac03db5faa.png"> -->

Commit message:

add a command /iw for improve writing of text in a message

README.md, after:

# openai-slack-bot

![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/jack482653/openai-slack-bot/workflow.yml?label=Test%20%26%20Build&style=for-the-badge)
![GitHub tag (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/jack482653/openai-slack-bot?label=Version&style=for-the-badge)

A Slack bot that uses the OpenAI API to generate responses and images based on user prompts.

Inspired by [@kvzhuang](https://gist.github.com/kvzhuang). Original source code can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/kvzhuang/357b83499d3edcc099512d47a4a1b646).

This document is polished by ChatGPT :P .

# Functions

- Mention bot and ask the bot a question at channel. Tt will generate a response:

<img width="693" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/209771710-0943aba3-2c56-4f5c-92d5-c60f8ac67ec7.png">

- Directly have a converstion with the bot:

<img width="372" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/223357511-91ceb512-8773-4fbd-879f-dce599cf9dd2.png">

- Generate an image based on a prompt:
```
/gen_image [prompt]
```
<img width="693" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/209779765-bd0892e9-fded-4a80-9d7c-4c0b3933accb.png">

- Summary the thread:

<img width="693" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/226178335-291dce6b-6d5e-4cb2-bcc4-832711b764ae.gif">

- Ask the question based on the conversations in the thread:

<img width="693" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/226178649-cd30db19-86e1-4bb1-a836-ec54a93896a7.gif">

# Prerequisites

## OpenAI

- Obtain an OpenAI API key.

## Slack

### Use App Manifest

You can easily create a pre-configured Slack app by [click this link](https://api.slack.com/apps?new_app=1&manifest_yaml=display_information%3A%0A%20%20name%3A%20OpenAI%20Chat%0A%20%20description%3A%20An%20OpenAI%20Slack%20bot%0Afeatures%3A%0A%20%20app_home%3A%0A%20%20%20%20home_tab_enabled%3A%20false%0A%20%20%20%20messages_tab_enabled%3A%20true%0A%20%20%20%20messages_tab_read_only_enabled%3A%20false%0A%20%20bot_user%3A%0A%20%20%20%20display_name%3A%20OpenAI%20Chat%0A%20%20%20%20always_online%3A%20true%0A%20%20shortcuts%3A%0A%20%20%20%20-%20name%3A%20Summarize...%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20type%3A%20message%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20callback_id%3A%20summarize%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20description%3A%20Summarize%20this%20thread...%0A%20%20%20%20-%20name%3A%20Ask%20something...%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20type%3A%20message%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20callback_id%3A%20ask%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20description%3A%20Ask%20the%20question%20in%20the%20thread%0A%20%20slash_commands%3A%0A%20%20%20%20-%20command%3A%20%2Fgen_image%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20description%3A%20Generate%20image%20from%20OpenAI%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20usage_hint%3A%20%22%5Ba%20white%20siamese%20cat%5D%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20should_escape%3A%20false%0Aoauth_config%3A%0A%20%20scopes%3A%0A%20%20%20%20bot%3A%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20app_mentions%3Aread%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20channels%3Ahistory%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20chat%3Awrite%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20chat%3Awrite.customize%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20chat%3Awrite.public%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20commands%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20files%3Awrite%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20groups%3Ahistory%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20im%3Ahistory%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20users%3Aread%0Asettings%3A%0A%20%20event_subscriptions%3A%0A%20%20%20%20bot_events%3A%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20app_mention%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20-%20message.im%0A%20%20interactivity%3A%0A%20%20%20%20is_enabled%3A%20true%0A%20%20org_deploy_enabled%3A%20false%0A%20%20socket_mode_enabled%3A%20true%0A%20%20token_rotation_enabled%3A%20false).

This is done by Slack App Manifest. You can also manually copy the manifest below, and paste while creating Slack app.

```yaml
display_information:
  name: Azure OpenAI Bot
  description: An Azure OpenAI Slack bot
features:
  app_home:
    home_tab_enabled: false
    messages_tab_enabled: true
    messages_tab_read_only_enabled: false
  bot_user:
    display_name: AOAI Bot
    always_online: true
  shortcuts:
    - name: Summarize...
      type: message
      callback_id: summarize
      description: Summarize this thread...
    - name: Ask something...
      type: message
      callback_id: ask
      description: Ask the question in the thread
  slash_commands:
    - command: /gen_image
      description: Generate image from OpenAI
      usage_hint: "[a white siamese cat]"
      should_escape: false
    - command: /reset
      description: Fotget the current DM conversation
      should_escape: false
    - command: /iw
      description: Improve writing of the given text
      should_escape: false
oauth_config:
  scopes:
    bot:
      - app_mentions:read
      - channels:history
      - chat:write
      - chat:write.customize
      - chat:write.public
      - commands
      - files:write
      - groups:history
      - im:history
      - users:read
settings:
  event_subscriptions:
    bot_events:
      - app_mention
      - message.im
  interactivity:
    is_enabled: true
  org_deploy_enabled: false
  socket_mode_enabled: true
  token_rotation_enabled: false
```

### Manual

1. Create a new app and install it to your workspace through the [Slack API](https://api.slack.com/apps).
2. Enable Socket Mode on the `Socket Mode` page.
3. On the `OAuth & Permissions` page, add the following scopes to `Scopes > Bot Token Scopes`:

<img width="660" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/226178765-6d325f69-3a6b-4183-aa92-58a2082eb6d8.png">

4. Enable Events and subscribe to the `app_mention` and `message.im` bot events on the `Event Subscriptions` page:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/223334464-8b85ae11-2921-4b18-a6a2-02a4598f9121.png)

5. Add the `/gen_image` command on the `Slash Commands` page:

<img width="652" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/209769980-5a618c3f-8c07-4023-b036-ad026f792329.png">

6. Add `summarize` and `ask` shortcuts on the `Interactivity & Shortcuts` page:

<img width="652" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/226179176-9966de71-e3dd-4d5c-b1de-7f1135287809.png">

7. Obtain the following keys and add them to a `.env` file at the root of the project directory:
    1. Slack
        - `SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET`: found under `Basic Information > App Credentials > Signing Secret`
        - `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN`: found under `OAuth & Permissions > Bot User OAuth Token`
        - `SLACK_APP_TOKEN`: found under `Basic Information > App-Level Tokens`, click on the token name to obtain it
        - `SLACK_APP_MENTION_QUOTE_USER_MESSAGE`: If enabled, user's message will be added as quote before response message when you mention bot. Default value: false.
    2. OpenAI auth
      You can use different OpenAI providers by setting `OPENAI_PROVIDER` to `openai` or `azure`. Each provider has different environment variables.
        1. OpenAI
            - `OPENAI_PROVIDER=openai`
            - `OPENAI_OPENAI_AUTH_API_KEY`: OpenAI API key
            - `OPENAI_OPENAI_AUTH_BASE_PATH`: OpenAI API base path.
        2. Azure
            - `OPENAI_PROVIDER=azure`
            - `OPENAI_AZURE_AUTH_API_BASE`: Azure API base path
            - `OPENAI_AZURE_AUTH_DEPLOYMENT_NAME`: Azure API deployment name
            - `OPENAI_AZURE_AUTH_API_VERSION`: Azure API version
            - `OPENAI_AZURE_AUTH_API_KEY`: Azure API key
    3. Common OpenAI settings
        - `OPENAI_CHAT_MODEL`: Which chat model you want to use. Be careful your money when you use gpt-4 :P. See [available models](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/overview). Default value: gpt-3.5-turbo.
        - `OPENAI_CHAT_ENABLE_SUMMARIZE`: If enabled, it will call OpenAPI chat completion to summarize previous conversioations when number of messages cached >= `OPENAI_CHAT_NUM_OF_MESSAGES`. Default value: false.
        - `OPENAI_CHAT_NUM_OF_MESSAGES`: Number of messages bot will cache. It's used for appending previous conversioations when calling chat completions API. MUST BE EVEN. Default value: 2.
        - `OPENAI_CHAT_TTL`: The duration of time (second) that messages will be kept. Default value: null (keep forever).
        - `OPENAI_CHAT_SYSTEM_MESSAGE`: First messsage to help set the behavior of the assistant. Default value: null.

IMPORTANT: If you are using Azure as OpenAI provider, you cannot use `/gen_image` command.

Your `.env` file should look like this:

```
OPENAI_PROVIDER=openai
OPENAI_OPENAI_AUTH_API_KEY=xxxxxxx
SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=xoxb-xxxxxxx
SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET=xxxxxx
SLACK_APP_TOKEN=xapp-xxxxxx
OPENAI_CHAT_MODEL=gpt-3.5-turbo
OPENAI_CHAT_ENABLE_SUMMARIZE=false
OPENAI_CHAT_NUM_OF_MESSAGES=4
OPENAI_CHAT_TTL=1200
OPENAI_CHAT_SYSTEM_MESSAGE="You are a helpful assistant."
```

# Getting Started

To get started with the bot, follow these steps:

1. Install the necessary dependencies by running `yarn install`

2. Start the bot by running `yarn start`

Alternatively, you can use docker by running `docker-compose up`.

<!-- # Insight

openai-slack-bot integrates Helicone to monitor their usage, latency, and costs of OpenAI:

<img width="652" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/227770247-4de265fa-ee1b-4630-bb17-7ad67818d75b.png">

<img width="800" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/227770354-9d23a3a4-bcb7-48b3-8eef-45ee8e94f243.png">


## Step
1. Go to [Helicone.ai](https://www.helicone.ai/) and register an account if you don't have one.
2. On step 2, add the OpenAI key you used in the bot:
<img width="652" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6816342/227769528-786b9333-c72e-4479-9ce0-f5ac03db5faa.png"> -->
